[Music]
if you were being hunted by six
terrifying monsters and each one
wanted to kill you in horrible ways what
would you do
i'm going to break down the mistakes
made what you should do
and how to beat every monster in scary
stories to tell in the dark
these kids are about to be hunted down
by pure evil
it's halloween night and they're here to
explore an abandoned house
rumor has it that this place is haunted
by the ghost of a child killer but when
this kid auggie learns that children
were murdered here he
refuses to go inside his friend ramon
isn't scared and insists they walk
inside to check it out but they're about
to discover a dark secret
that will haunt them for the rest of
their lives the others go upstairs while
these two explore the kitchen and ramon
here notices these grooves on the wall
with the girl's help they push the shelf
aside revealing a hidden door behind it
walking through stella looks through the
items around them and she begins to
realize that these are the possessions
of cerebellus the murderer who lived
here
70 years ago legend goes that she lured
children into the house with her scary
stories and used poison to murder anyone
who came by
the legend says that now her spirit
haunts this place and if someone comes
here at night asking sarah to tell them
a story
it would be the last one they ever hear
okay
nothing about this is a good idea if you
ever have a friend that pressures you to
break into a haunted house on halloween
night
you should tell him to go [ __ ] himself
now even if you don't believe in ghosts
or the supernatural
there's still plenty of reason to be
scared out of your mind
it's the statistical fact that on the
night of halloween children are three
times more likely to be killed which
makes it the deadliest day of the year
for anyone under the age of 17.
the reason has nothing to do with ghosts
or goblins but if that doesn't scare
enough common sense into you to
seriously reconsider your plans on
october 31st
then you're putting your life in the
cold-blooded hands of natural selection
these kids are going to realize that
visiting this haunted house was their
worst mistake
which is exactly how i feel when i'm at
the bank and that's why this video
sponsor
current is giving away five thousand
dollars to you for signing up to their
app
so you don't ever have to feel that way
again guys current if you don't know
already is the future of banking
no hidden fees no hidden anything no
bull
it's so easy to use they ship you this
sleek looking card
and the rest you can manage any way that
you want on your phone
with every feature you could ask for
early paychecks instant notifications
basically all the tech the bank should
have built a long time ago current
already has and does it better in every
way and the best part is not only by
using the app do you get rewards
like free cashback current is literally
paying my viewers
just to sign up guys this is literally
the best sponsor i've ever had
and i cannot be more excited that
current and i are giving away
five thousand dollars use my link in the
description current.com
how to beat to download the app and use
current code how to beat and in the next
couple of weeks
we will be sending 10 random people 500
each i definitely recommend you sign up
with current
even if you don't get the 500 reward
this time around a lot of you signing up
will make them happy enough to sponsor
me again
and you or a friend might get it the
next time so big thanks to current
empowering creators and big thank you to
you guys for showing them some love in
return
using my link in the description
meanwhile the other kids are exploring
the second floor and charlie here gets
an idea
he runs to hide in a closet so he can
scare his friend auggie but when he
peeks through the doors
he's shocked to find the room has
completely changed and there in the
middle of the floor is a woman
sitting on a bed freaking out he closes
the door but hears footsteps approaching
him
suddenly the closet doors burst open and
his friend finds him standing there
terrified charlie walks out asking where
the old lady has gone but his friend has
no idea what he's talking about
realizing the house is haunted he tells
augie they need to leave
and runs downstairs to find their
friends the boys find the others
inspecting the secret room and that's
when stella here takes an
old book off the shelf it belongs to
none other than sarah bellows the child
killer
scared out of his mind charlie insists
they should put it back but suddenly the
door behind them slams shut and all the
candles go out
the local boy has followed them to the
house and locked everyone inside
his girlfriend demands that they let the
kids out because her brother is in there
and goes to set them free but as she
opens the door
the bully pushes her down the stairs and
closes it now she's trapped in with the
others
and they're all going to die if they
don't find a way out of here as the kids
start to panic
stella here asks the ghost to tell her a
story just like in the legend and that's
when a shadowy hand
reaches out and unlocks the bolt walking
through the door
the group is surprised to find no one on
the other side but are so glad to be
free that they don't realize they've
just been saved by a ghost
okay this is getting freaky because
nobody was around to set them free
and we can't explain how a lock like
this could have opened on its own
if the kids had looked closely they
would have realized that this bolt
recedes at least an inch into the door
and it's also up against a wall-mounted
dish rack
making for a very tight corner so
there's virtually no way for something
to fall down
and push the lock two inches to the left
to open it this leaves no room for any
natural explanation and since we're
already in a haunted house we need to
strongly
consider that this is most likely the
result of paranormal activity
now this sounds unscientific recent
studies have suggested that certain
locations might actually be haunted for
real
according to the study if a location
already has several reports of
paranormal activity and someone who
isn't aware of those reports
visits the haunted location they are
statistically much more likely to
experience
paranormal phenomena than anywhere else
this doesn't prove ghosts exist but it's
a strong correlation of circumstances
and it should be enough to make you
scaredless about visiting a haunted
house in the middle of the night
in the majority of cultures across the
world a ghost is defined as the spirit
of someone who has died
and refuses to leave but what's
interesting here is that they must
anchor themselves to the real world by
binding to a person
place or object now since this book
belongs to the girl who died here
there's a very high chance that the book
itself could be the anchor that's
holding cerebellus spirit
these kids will soon realize that taking
this book out of the house was a huge
mistake
because it's going to summon six
terrified monsters to hunt them down
and kill them at home steli here takes
out the book she stole from the mansion
and opens it to read the scary stories
inside but there's one that catches her
eye she wipes the page but the words
smear and she realizes that the letters
were recently written
in fresh blood the story describes a boy
who hated a scarecrow but it came to
life and murdered him
meanwhile across town tommy here is
doing chores on his parents farm and
passes by the scarecrow but doesn't
realize that this is the first monster
they're going to face
he walks further into the field looking
over his shoulder but when he turns back
around
the straw man is right in front of him
standing on his own two feet
he falls to the ground in shock and
watches as it starts to come alive
before his eyes
it's scary as hell and the bully runs
away screaming for his mommy as the
scarecrow chases after him
he trips on a pitchfork laying in the
dirt and seeing the monster getting
closer he decides to face it head-on
standing his ground the kid stabs a
scarecrow in the stomach but it doesn't
even flinch
the monster yanks it out of its own body
and rams it straight into the kid's guts
before ripping the pitchfork back out
the bully stumbles away in shock and
tries to call for help
but suddenly he starts coughing up hay
and straw begins to grow out of his
wounds
there's nothing he can do to save
himself and he collapses to the ground
as he slowly transforms into a scarecrow
that's one down and five to go
okay this death could have easily been
avoided if he hadn't made one critical
mistake
first of all this scarecrow has been
possessed by something supernatural so
there's no logical reason to think that
we can kill the same way we would kill a
human
this thing is made out of wood and hay
so stabbing him in the stomach with a
pitchfork is an incredibly stupid thing
to do here
now we still have to stop it because if
we just run away he might follow us into
the house and kill everyone
inside the best chance we have surviving
is to knock it over to limit its
movements and from there
it's a much weaker threat that we can
overpower based on the physical
structure of this scarecrow
there's no way it would be able to
maneuver itself into a standing position
and with one simple push tommy could
have defeated the scarecrow with
his eyes closed from there i would drag
it out of the field and set him on fire
the scarecrow spine is a single column
of wood so he can't even arch his back
without breaking himself in half if
tommy here had taken a moment to
consider the physical limitations of his
enemy he would still be alive
the next day the girl shows her friends
the story about the scarecrow and she
thinks it's connected to tommy the bully
who went missing last night
charlie here believes she might be right
and tells them all about the woman
he saw in the haunted house but their
friend thinks they're getting carried
away with ghost stories
wanting to prove him wrong stella and
ramon go to the cornfield where the
bully disappeared and they realized the
scarecrow is now wearing the same
clothes as the missing kid
the girl thinks that this is not a
coincidence and whatever happens in the
book
happens in real life her friend ramon
insists she's freaking out over nothing
but he has no idea that tonight
they're going to encounter the second
monster and it's even more dangerous
than the last
later that day stella decides to take
the book back to the haunted house
if these stories are coming true then
she wants no part of it and hopes to put
a stop to this curse
but when she returns home that night the
girl is shocked to find her friend
reading from the exact same book somehow
it's returned back to her room and the
boy found it laying on the desk
confused she opens up the pages and sees
a new story appear
called the big toe as words begin to
write themselves into the book
she drops it in horror as they both
watch or write out the story of someone
who eats a stew full of human body parts
that's when she realizes the stories of
her friend augie and grabs the
walkie-talkie
desperate to make sure he's still alive
okay
this is instantly terrifying because
auggie here has no
idea he's about to be killed and they
can't reach him in time to warn him
since there's no other way to intervene
i would try to use the book's own powers
to our advantage to save our friend
from what we've observed it looks like
these stories are written in blood so i
would draw my own blood and modify the
story
saying that auggie ran away and the
monster wasn't able to kill him this
might give us a chance to use the bug's
power against itself and nobody will die
now if it doesn't work then we'll have
one less friend and that's sad
but on the bright side we won't have to
send as many christmas cards at the end
of the year
if it does work however then this gives
us the superpower of a death note but
with pure creative freedom to make
anything we could ever want
for example we could write our own story
about a monster that killed other
monsters to protect us
but we also might be able to write a
message to the ghost of cerebellos and
try to communicate with her
since she's made it clear that we can't
get rid of the book and we're stuck with
it then we need to convince her that we
are willing to work with her
if sarah doesn't consider us to be a
threat then our lives will be spared and
we'll be able to enjoy the powers of the
book with a lot fewer consequences
at the end of the day it's better to be
the devil's advocate than to be the
devil's plaything
and i'm prepared to do just about
anything if i think it has a chance of
saving me and my friends lives across
town
auggie here is starving and opens his
fridge to find a huge pot of stew
waiting for him he's about to dig into
his last meal when the connection on the
walkie-talkie finally comes through
and he answers it his friends warn him
that his name just appeared in the book
and it's writing out a death story
taylor made for him but he thinks it's
just a dumb prank
annoyed and hungry auggie puts down the
radio and shoves a spoonful of stew into
his mouth but then he feels something
strange
and pulls out a huge rotten toe it's
disgusting and he tips the whole pot
onto the floor
realizing that his friends were right he
runs upstairs to his room but he's just
made the biggest mistake of his life
on the other side of the door a rotting
woman slowly walks through the hallway
and she's missing her big toe
he tries to open the window but it won't
budge and now he's trapped with no way
to escape
hiding under the bed augie can only
watch in terror as his door
starts to slowly creak open but no one
comes in thinking he's safe he crawls
out to see if the coast is clear but
that's when the boy is suddenly pulled
back under the bed
and finds the rotten woman right above
him the kid tries to save himself but
she's too strong and he disappears into
the darkness
later stella and ramon arrive and run
into the room looking for their friend
but the only thing they find are the
scratches he left on the floor
that's two down and four to go okay
that's the last time i'm ever eating my
mom's leftovers but this wasn't even the
biggest mistake that the kid made
when augie here realized that a monster
was coming to kill him the first thing
he did was run deeper into his house and
crawl under the bed
this has got to be the absolute worst
place to hide because once you're found
there's nowhere for you to run it's a
death sentence and the better option
would have obviously been to break the
window
to escape now if he managed to escape
the house and the monster still followed
him outside
he'd be a lot more likely to find
someone to help him kill it there were
fewer gun laws in 1968 than there are
now
so there's a good chance that several of
his neighbors are gun owners
if you pass enough houses screaming for
help somebody is bound to show up just
waiting for an opportunity like this to
defend the streets of america
if this kid doesn't have any way to kill
the monster himself he can let the
second amendment do it for him
it also helps this monster is missing
its big toe so it'll be much slower than
the average human
the mechanics of running requires you to
use your toes for balance
and you would fall flat on your face if
you tried to run without them
as long as we can run and stay ahead of
it then we'll be able to buy ourselves a
lot more time to figure out a way to
kill it
the next day the group meets up and the
others learn about what happened to
their friend augie he's disappeared
without a trace
and the same will happen to each of them
with their own stories written but the
friends have an idea
placing the book in a metal barrel they
light it on fire to destroy it for good
but when they dump out the ashes they
discover that the book is completely
unburnt
there's nothing they can do to get rid
of it and stella here realizes that they
need to research the owner of the book
sarah bellows before someone else dies
they go to the local newspaper outlet
and charlie here finds an old paper
saying that sarah died at a mental
hospital and
after her death the surviving family
members began to mysteriously disappear
stella here checks the book and realizes
that each member of the bellows family
has their own deadly story
as the girl flips through the pages the
title of a new story appears called the
red spot and charlie's big sister
is next to die that night this girl ruth
is trying to pop a massive zit on her
cheek but behind her a ghostly shadow
starts to stretch across the bathroom
ceiling
that's when she sees something move
under the skin and suddenly hundreds of
spiders come bursting out of her face
the girl starts to freak out and when
the friends finally reach her they find
her screaming on the floor in terror
with spiders crawling everywhere
this kid does her with a bucket of water
and they manage to save the sister's
life but that's now two down
one saved and there are three more
friends to go
okay this was a close call but the big
takeaway here is that now
we know we can intervene in these death
stories since we can read the story
being written before it happens then as
long as we stay in the group we will
have several minutes in advance to plan
for whatever monster is coming next
if you don't stay in the group then you
won't know how you'll die and nobody
will be able to help you fight it off or
run away so splitting up at any point
before your story is written is going to
be a huge risk
now this isn't the only help that we can
get to guarantee our safety
taking the book to the police is
definitely the right move here the cops
will think you are a prime suspect
in two separate murder cases because
there's literally a record of the
murders in this book written in blood
but that's actually not a bad thing
first of all there's an easy way to
prove that this book is supernatural
because if they wait long enough and you
make them watch
eventually it will go after a new victim
and they'll be able to see the book
writing in itself
we can also easily demonstrate to them
that nothing can destroy this book which
breaks the laws of physics and they'll
have no choice but to listen to us
now if they decide to ignore the proof
we give them then that's okay too
because if we are the prime suspect in
their investigation then we'll have
police surveillance watching our every
move and when a monster shows up to kill
us they might be able to save our lives
at the very least we can lure the new
monsters straight into the police and
we'll get to watch our tax dollars at
work
the next day the friends visit the
hospital to find records on cerebellos
when she was a patient here
they sneak into a restricted area and
look for the red room where the older
files are kept but charlie here doesn't
want to go and is terrified that he
might be next
the girl tells him to wait while they go
looking but he decides to take the
elevator to get out while he still can
and leave the others behind meanwhile
his friends find the records room and
discover the medical files of sarah
bellows
reading it they learned she was admitted
by her family and the doctor supervising
her case was her own brother who
tortured her through horrible medical
treatments
the girl pulls out a wax cylinder from a
can and ramon here recognizes that it's
an audio recording
listening to it they hear the doctor
interrogating sarah
demanding she confessed to poisoning the
children the woman
insists that mercury from the family's
paper mill spilled into the water supply
and ramon here realizes her own family
was framing her for crimes she didn't
commit
that's when she suddenly starts telling
a story about their friend charlie and
terrified
they realize that he's next to die if
they don't save him
upstairs charlie is completely lost and
tries to find an exit when all of a
sudden an alarm goes off as the
hospital's lights turn red
reaching an intersection he sees a fat
pill figure walking towards him at the
end of the hallway and runs in the
opposite direction but the same figure
is at the other end too
everywhere he goes there's no escape as
the monster appears at the end of every
corridor and slowly gets closer
finally they surround him on all sides
and the pale lady embraces the boy
absorbing him
into her body it's horrifying and
there's nothing he can do to escape
by the time his friends arrive he's
vanished and the only thing left
is his pen that's three down one saved
and two to go
okay this monster is scary as hell she's
like that great ant that you only see on
family reunions and you can't do
anything to avoid her suffocating hugs
now if we don't panic we can survive
this pretty easily if we use our time
wisely to observe our surroundings and
find things to use to our advantage
first of all there are a lot of rooms in
this hallway and it's worth looking to
find if any of them have a window to
break
and escape out of if it's looking like
none of the rooms have windows then the
next best thing
is to get through the monster by going
above her through this ventilation shaft
it probably wouldn't be too difficult to
find tables and chairs in some of these
rooms
so i would try to gather as many as i
could find into the middle of the
hallway intersection
then i would line them up so that i'm on
a platform above them
the tables will stop them from being
able to reach me and it buys me time to
try and loosen the grate of this
ventilator shaft to crawl in and make my
way out of the building
now if we can't manage to open the
ventilation we're already at least two
and a half feet above them and could
easily jump over the monster
in any direction we wanted as long as we
continue to cordon off the threat
we can search for an exit without
getting hunk to death by great amberna
that night stella and ramon are taken to
the police station
after being caught in the hospital the
sheriff asks them what they know about
the missing children
and they tell him about the book and its
powers but he doesn't believe them
the man will let them go without some
proper answers so they stay the night in
jail
this is the worst possible place they
could be because another monster is
coming and there's nowhere for them to
run
later the sheriff sees a new story has
appeared in the book and asks the kids
about it but they're interrupted as all
the lights in the station go
out his dog begins growling at a noise
in the other room so the sheriff goes to
investigate but something
suddenly falls out of the chimney and
the cop realizes it's a severed head
the head starts to move and the sheriff
immediately shoots at it until he's all
out of ammo but more severed body parts
start falling from the chimney
assembling themselves into a disgusting
rotten corpse
the monster snaps the sheriff's neck and
throws his body into the jail barge
before crawling through the holding room
to find the kids
he tries pushing himself through the
bars of ramon's cell but the girl grabs
the keys from the sheriff's belt
and runs over to help set both of them
free before the monster can get inside
they leave the station and find a squad
card to escape with but that's when the
boy tells stella to go to the haunted
house without him
he suggests that she talks to the ghost
so she can finally end this curse while
he draws off the monster and she agrees
to the plan
splitting up from his friend the boy
drives off in the squad car
as the creature chases after him
suddenly the monster lands on the hood
of the vehicle and tries to break into
the car
ramon here rams the creature into a semi
truck and traps it between the hood
before running away to the haunted house
but he's still in danger
breaking apart the monster escapes the
vehicles and reassembles itself to
continue hunting the boy down
ok this is easily the deadliest monster
so far but it's not just because they
were locked in jail with nowhere to go
first of all these kids could have done
a much better job of convincing the cop
that this book is supernatural
all they would have needed to do was try
destroying the book in front of him
and the cop would have seen that it was
impossible this is enough proof that
something strange is going on but he
didn't realize this
until it was too late this cop emptied
his gun straight into the monster's head
and it didn't even flinch that means
this creature can't be killed through
brute force and we need to unthink it in
order to survive
he's also the first monster that runs
faster than a human so even if we manage
to break out of jail we still can't
outrun it and that seriously limits our
options
we're going to need to beat this monster
right here in the police station if we
want any chance to survive
so we need to first consider its
physical limitations and try using them
against it
now this monster's greatest strength is
also its greatest weakness
this creature can detach its body parts
which is really badass but if that's how
it was put together then it's probably
going to be a lot more vulnerable around
those connecting points
this gives us a way to limit its ability
to harm or chase us down
if it were me instead of trying to
escape i would wait until he's trapped
between the bars and have stella try to
steal one of its limbs while i try to
tear off its head from its body
if we manage to separate its limbs and
head and then run away with them
then it won't be able to run and chase
us and his corpse won't be able to see
where it's going
then we can take the stone body parts
out to the middle of the nearest lake
tie them to a brick and watch them sink
to the bottom the monster will be so
preoccupied with finding and retrieving
his messy body parts that we'll have
plenty of time to escape and solve the
mystery of the storybook before he ever
finds us again
reaching the haunted house steadily here
begged cerebella's ghost to stop killing
her friends
explaining that they now know she was
framed and never committed any crimes
that's when she hears footsteps walking
upstairs and all of a sudden she finds
herself transported to the past years
before the house was ever abandoned
moments later ramon here arrives at the
mansion searching for his friend when he
finds the girl's book at the bottom of
the stairs and sees a new story being
written for stella
suddenly he hears noises outside and
realizes the monster has caught up to
him
he runs upstairs and finds room to hide
it shutting the door behind him
as the monster chases him out the
stairwell in the past
stella hears a man calling out for sarah
bellows afraid
she runs upstairs and shuts herself
inside of a room to hide but that's when
the girl
catches her reflection in the mirror she
walks up to take a closer look and
realizes that she looks exactly like
sarah the owner of the storybook
freaking out she runs out the door and
through the hallway until she finds the
dining room with nowhere left to go she
hides under the table hoping no one will
find her but that's when
everything goes wrong she stays as quiet
as she can but the bellows family finds
her and drags her out of hiding
they carry her through the house and
back into the secret room where sarah
the owner of the storybook was kept
prisoner meanwhile in the present
ramon here looks around for an exit and
falls all the way to the ground level
spraining his ankle in the process
suddenly a voice screams out from the
secret room and he limps over to rescue
his friend but that's when he sees
something above him
and finds the monster hanging from the
ceiling the creature quarters him
against the floor and is about to finish
him off but stella is about to save
everyone's life
that's when the girl senses something is
in the room and finally sees the ghost
of sarah bellows sitting in the chair
across from her this time stella isn't
afraid and tells the ghost that if she
kills her and her friends then she's no
better than how her own family treated
her
stella promises to tell the truth about
sarah to the world and the spirit offers
a pen to write the truth into the book
stella writes the ghost's true story
with their own blood and the ghost
subtly lets out a terrifying scream
sarah bellows has finally let go of her
anger and lifts the curse
suddenly the monster releases a ramone
and falls to pieces on the floor
he limps towards the secret room and
opens the door to find stella and the
last two survivors embrace each other in
relief
thankful to still be alive but what do
you think how would you beat scary
stories to tell in the dark
let me know with a comment down below
thank you so much for watching leave a
like and subscribe
and check out the how to be playlist for
more videos like this
until next time have a damn good day